welcome to synopsis recap today we are
going to tell the story of the godfather
part two
have fun and enjoy of course there are
spoilers ahead
the film begins in 1901 in the town of
corleone sicily
at the funeral of young vito's father
antonio andalini who has been murdered
for an insult to the local mafia lord
don
siccio during the procession vito's
older brother is murdered because he
swore revenge on the dawn
vito's mother goes to sichio to beg for
mercy but he refuses
knowing that nine year old vito will
seek revenge later in life
vito's mother then takes sichio hostage
at knifepoint allowing her son to escape
and sichio's men kill her they search
the town for the boy but he is aided in
his escape by the townspeople
vito finds his way by ship to new york
city and at ellis island an immigration
agent chooses vito's hometown of
corleone as his surname
and he is registered as vito corleone in
1958 in a scene similar to the opening
of the first film
michael corleone godfather of the
corleone family deals with various
business and family problems during an
elaborate party at his lake tahoe nevada
compound to celebrate his son anthony's
first communion
in his office michael meets with corrupt
nevada senator pat geary to discuss the
price of the gaming licenses for the
hotel casinos the family is buying
beery who makes his contempt for michael
and other italian businessmen who are
moving into his state to take advantage
of gambling opportunities known
promises to make michael's acquisition
of his gaming license a difficult
process
michael ends his conversation with geary
when he refuses to pay the outrageous
figure he demands
telling the senator he'll get nothing
michael also deals with his younger
sister connie who
although recently divorced from her
second husband is planning to marry a
man named merle johnson with no obvious
means of support
and of whom michael disapproves he also
talks with johnny ola the right-hand man
of jewish gangster hyman roth who is
supporting michael's move into the
gambling industry
belatedly michael deals with frank five
angels penting jelly
a business associate who took over
corleone caporage in peter clemenza's
territory in new york city after his
death and now has problems with the
risotto brothers who are backed by roth
bent and jelly leaves abruptly after
telling michael his father did business
with hyman roth his father respected
hyman roth but his father never trusted
hyman roth
later that night michael barely escapes
an assassination attempt
when two unseen hitmen spray the bedroom
with bullets
the two hitmen are found dead having
been killed by a mole within the
compound
afterwards michael tells his lawyer and
adopted brother tom hagan
that the hit was made with the help of
someone close and that he must leave
entrusting all his power to tom to
protect his family
in 1917 new york city the adult veto
corleone works in a grocery store in the
lower east side with his friend jinko
abendando
the neighborhood is controlled by a
purported member of the black hand
don fannucci who extorts protection
payments from local businesses
one night vito's neighbor a young peter
clemenza asks him to hide a stash of
guns for him
and later to repay the favor takes him
to a fancy apartment where they commit
their first crime together
stealing an elegant drug in 1958 michael
meets with hyman roth in miami
and he tells roth that he believes frank
pentangelli was responsible for the
assassination attempt
and that pentangelli will pay for it
traveling to brooklyn
michael lets penton jelly know that roth
was actually behind it
and that michael has a plan to deal with
roth but he needs frankie to cooperate
with the rosato brothers
in order to put roth off guard when
penton jelly goes to meet with the
rosados of the local bar he is told
michael corleone says hello as he is
attacked from behind but the attempted
murder is interrupted by a policeman
bent and jelly is left for dead and his
bodyguard willie seechie
is struck by a car while shooting at the
risottos as they drive away
back in nevada tom hagan is called to a
brothel in carson city run by michael's
older brother fredo
where senator geary is implicated in the
death of the prostitute and tom offers
to take care of the problem in return
for friendship between the senator and
the corleone family
meanwhile michael meets roth in havana
cuba at the time when dictator fulgencio
batista is soliciting american
investment and communist guerrillas led
by
fidel castro are trying to bring down
the government
at a birthday party for roth michael
mentions that there is a possibility
that the rebels might win making their
business dealings in cuba problematic
earlier that day michael had witnessed a
communist rebel kill a havana policeman
by detonating a grenade that also killed
the rebel himself
the comment prompts roth to remark
privately that michael has not yet
delivered the two million dollars to
firm their partnership
fredo carrying the promised money
arrives in havana and meets
michael michael mentions hyman roth and
johnny ola to him but fredo says he has
never met them
michael confides to his brother that it
was roth who tried to kill him and that
he plans to try again
michael assures fredo that he has
already made his move and that hyman
roth will never see the new year
instead of turning over the money to
roth michael asks him who gave the order
to have frank pentangelli killed
saying it wasn't him roth avoids the
question instead speaking angrily of the
murder of his old friend
mo greene which michael had orchestrated
as depicted at the end of the first film
michael has asked fredo who knows havana
well to show senator geary and other
important american officials and
businessmen a good time
during which fredo pretends to not
recognize joniola
soon after at a sex show fredo comments
loudly that joniola told him about the
place
contradicting what he told michael twice
earlier that he didn't previously know
her author ola
michael now realizes that the traitor is
his own brother and dispatches his
bodyguard besetta to deal with
roth johnny ol is strangled by besetta
but roth
in a delicate state because of his heart
condition is taken to a hospital where
michael's enforcer is shot trying to
kill him
at battista's new year's eve party at
the stroke of midnight
michael grasps fredo tightly by the head
and kisses him telling him that he knows
it was him
and that freida broke his heart when
rebels attack and batista announces his
resignation
the guests flee however fredo refuses to
go with michael
despite michael's pleas that fredo is
still his brother and that it's the only
way out
in early 1959 michael returns to his
lake tahoe compound after fleeing cuba
where tom tells him that roth escaped
from cuba
after suffering a stroke and is
recovering in miami that michael's
bodyguard is dead and that fredo is
probably hiding in new york
pagan also informs michael that kay had
a miscarriage while he was away
michael is distraught at the news and
furiously demands to know the sex of the
child
but tom says he doesn't know in 1920 don
fannucci is now aware of the partnership
between vito
clemenza and salvador tecio and wants
his share of their profits every week
clemenza and tessio agree to pay but
vito is reluctant
and asks his friends to leave everything
in his hands so fanucci will accept less
and indeed
veto manages to get fannucci to take
only one sixth of what he demanded one
hundred dollars out of six hundred
dollars
immediately afterward during the
neighborhood festa vito murders fanucci
in the hallway outside his apartment and
then rejoins his wife
and children on the stoops outside his
apartment building where vito tells the
infant michael that his father loves him
very much
but fanucci dead vito earns the respect
of the neighborhood
and begins to intercede in local
disputes operating out of the storefront
of his genkopura olive oil company
named after his friend jenko abendando
which he manages as well as give out
favors to others in the community such
as a friend of his wives
threatened with eviction vito
intimidates her landlord into letting
her stay with a reduction in her rent
in 1959 in washington dc a senate
committee of which senator geary is a
member
is conducting an investigation into
organized crime and the mafia
when michael appears before the
committee senator geary makes a big show
of supporting italian americans
and then excuses himself from the
proceedings during questioning
michael denies all criminal allegations
against him from the murder of solazzo
and captain mccluskey back in 1946 in
the first film
and to his business status of operating
several gambling casinos in nevada
michael makes a statement challenging
the committee to produce a witness to
corroborate the charges against him
the hearing ends with the committee
chairman senator kane promising a
witness who will do exactly that
frank pentangelli who did not die in the
attack by the risotto brothers and
falsely believes that michael had tried
to kill him
has made a deal with the fbi and will
testify against michael
tom hagan and michael discuss the
problem observing that roth's strategy
to destroy michael is well planned
as michael will be indicted for perjury
after penting jelly's testimony
michael's brother fredo has been found
and persuaded to return to nevada and in
a private meeting he explains to michael
his betrayal
upset about being passed over to head
the family in favor of michael he wants
respect and his due
he helped raw thinking there would be
something in it for him but he swears he
didn't know they wanted to kill michael
he also tells michael that the senate
committee's chief lawyer
k-stat is roth's man michael then tells
fredo that he is nothing to him now
not a brother not a friend nothing and
privately instructs al-niri that nothing
is to happen to fredo
while their mother is still alive at the
hearing in which frank penton jelly is
to testify
michael arrives accompanied by
pentagelly's brother vincenzo brought
from sicily and whose presence causes
frank to recant his previous statements
about michael
when penton jelly is pressed he claims
that he just told the fbi
what they wanted to hear but no witness
to testify against michael the committee
adjourns with tom
acting as michael's lawyer loudly
demanding an apology
at a hotel room afterwards kate tries to
leave michael
taking their children with her michael
at first tries to mollify her but loses
his temper and hits her when she reveals
to him that a recent
miscarriage was actually an abortion to
avoid providing another child into
michael's criminal inheritance
she also tells him that the child was a
boy further infuriating michael
in 1925 while visiting sicily for a
family vacation in for the first time in
20 years
vito corleone is introduced to the now
elderly don sichio as the man who
imports their olive oil to america
and wants his blessing when siccio asks
vito who his father was
vito says my father's name is antonio
andolini and this is for you
cutting the old man's stomach open with
a knife avenging the deaths of his
father
mother and brother as they make their
escape from sichio's compound and his
men
tomasino was shot in the leg by one of
ciccio's bodyguards
in april 1959 carmella corleone veto's
widow and the mother of his children
dies and the corleone family is reunited
for her funeral
michael still shuns fredo who is
miserable but relents when connie
implores him to
michael and fredo embrace but at the
same time michael signals to neri that
fredo's protection from harm
in effect while their mother lived has
now run out michael
tom and rocco lampen discuss their final
dealings with hyman roth who has been
unsuccessfully seeking asylum from
various countries
and was even refused entry to israel as
a returned jew
michael rejects tom's advice that the
corleone family's position is secure and
that killing roth and the rosado
brothers for revenge is an unnecessary
risk
later tom pays a visit to the imprisoned
frank pentanjelli on a military base
and suggests that he take his own life
in the manner of unsuccessful ancient
roman conspirators who
in return were promised that their
families would be taken care of after
their suicide
under supervision from connie kay visits
her children but cannot bear to leave
them and stays too long
when michael arrives he coldly closes
the door in her face
the movie reaches its climax in a
montage of assassinations and death
reminiscent of the end of part one as he
arrives at an airport to be taken to
custody hyman roth is killed by rocco
lampen
disguised as a journalist who himself is
immediately shot dead by roth's
bodyguards
on the military base frank penton jelly
is found dead
having followed hagan's instructions and
committed suicide in his
bathtub fredo is murdered by al niri
while they are fishing on lake tahoe
while fredo is seeing a hail mary to
help catch a fish
the penultimate scene takes place on
december 21
1941 and the corleone family is
preparing a surprise birthday party for
vito
vito's eldest child sonny introduces his
friend carlo rizzi
connie's future abusive husband and
betrayer of sunny to his family
they all talk about the recent attack on
pearl harbor by the japanese
and michael shocks everybody by
announcing that he has just enlisted in
the united states marine corps
sunny ridicules michael's choice and tom
mentions how vito has told him he has
great expectations for michael's future
fredo is the only one who supports
michael's decision
sal tessio comes in with the cake for
the party when vito arrives all but
michael
leave the room to greet him the final
scene in the film is michael
sitting by himself at lake tahoe in
silent contemplation
if you like the video please subscribe
leave a like
and turn on the notification thank you
for watching